The Project Gutenberg eBook of Star Book No. 189: Fashion Parade:
knit and crochet for him and her, by Anonymous

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this eBook.

Title: Star Book No. 189: Fashion Parade: knit and crochet for him and
       her

Author: Anonymous

Release Date: February 7, 2023 [eBook #69974]

Language: English

Produced by: Stephen Hutcheson and the Online Distributed Proofreading
             Team at https://www.pgdp.net

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK STAR BOOK NO. 189: FASHION
PARADE: KNIT AND CROCHET FOR HIM AND HER ***





  Transcriber’s Note
  Italic text displayed as: _italic_
  Bold text displayed as: =bold=




  AMERICAN THREAD CO. STAR BOOK No. 189      =29¢=

  FASHION PARADE

  KNIT AND CROCHET FOR HIM AND HER

  [Illustration: Lady standing in front of building]




The Jade Suit with crocheted trim

  _illustrated in color on front cover_


KNITTED JACKET


=SIZES: Small, Medium, Large=


Materials Required:

  =AMERICAN THREAD COMPANY “DAWN” KNITTING WORSTED=
  4 (5, 5) skeins Jade

1 Pr. Knitting Needles No. 9 OR ANY SIZE NEEDLES WHICH WILL RESULT IN
STITCH GAUGE BELOW

  Aluminum Crochet Hook Size H
  1½ yds. 1 inch Grosgrain Ribbon

=GAUGE=: 9 sts = 2 inches; 6 rows = 1 inch.

Directions are given for Small Size. Changes for Medium and Large
Sizes are given in parentheses.


=BACK=: Cast on 77 (81, 85) sts, work in stockinette st (K 1 row, P 1
row) for 14 inches (all sizes). =NEXT 2 ROWS=: =SHAPE ARMHOLES=: Bind
off 5 (6, 7) sts at beg of each row. =NEXT 3 ROWS=: Dec 1 st each end
for all sizes. Work even until armholes measure 7½ (8, 8½) inches.
=SHAPE SHOULDERS=: Bind off 6 (6, 6) sts at beg of next 4 rows, then
bind off 7 (8, 9) sts at beg of next 2 rows, bind off remaining sts,
23 sts remain (all sizes) for neck.

=LEFT FRONT=: Cast on 23 (25, 27) sts. Working in stockinette st inc
1 st at end of next row (front edge, all sizes), then inc 1 st at
front edge every row until there are 38 (40, 42) sts on needle. Work
even until front measures same as back to underarm. =SHAPE ARMHOLE=:
Work same as back. Work even until armhole measures 4½ (5, 5½) inches
ending at front edge. =SHAPE NECKLINE=: Bind off 5 sts at beg of row,
then dec 1 st at neck edge every other row 6 times (all sizes). Work
even until armhole measures same as back. =SHAPE SHOULDERS=: Work
same as back.

=RIGHT FRONT=: Work same as Left Front reversing all shapings.

=SLEEVES=: Cast on 40 (42, 44) sts, work in stockinette st inc 1 st
at each end every 9th row until there are 58 (60, 62) sts. Work even
until sleeve measures 15 inches from beg or 1 inch less than desired
length. =NEXT 2 ROWS=: Bind off 5 (6, 7) sts at beg of each row, then
dec 1 st at each end every other row until 24 sts (all sizes) remain,
bind off.

=FINISHING=: Block each section. Sew shoulder, side and sleeve seams.
Sew sleeves in position.

=EDGE=: Attach yarn at side seam. Work a row of s c all around
Jacket working 1 s c in every other row at front edge and 1 s c in
each st at lower edge and neck. =2nd ROW=: Skip 2 s c, 4 d c with
ch 1 between each d c in next 5 c, skip 2 s c, s c in next s c,
repeat from beg across lower edge and around neck skipping only 1 s
c between shells at front edge taking care to have same number of
shells on each front edge. =3rd ROW=: Sl st to ch 1 space between d
c, * ch 2, sl st in next ch 1 space, repeat from * once, sl st in
next s c, sl st to next ch 1 space, repeat from 1st * all around.
Work same edge on sleeves.


  [Illustration: decoration] _The American Thread Company_
  =90 Park Avenue, New York, N. Y. 10016=

  PRINTED IN U.S.A.

[Illustration: Lady holding beads]




KNITTED SKIRT


=SIZES: Small, Medium, Large=


Materials Required:

  =AMERICAN THREAD COMPANY “DAWN” KNITTING WORSTED=
  4 (4, 5) skeins Jade

1 Pr. Knitting Needles No. 9 OR ANY SIZE NEEDLES WHICH WILL RESULT IN
STITCH GAUGE BELOW

  Plastic Crochet Hook Size H
  7 inch Conmar “No-Snag” Zipper
  1 yd. 1 inch Grosgrain Ribbon
  2 Hooks and Eyes

=GAUGE=: 9 sts = 2 inches; 6 rows = 1 inch

Directions are given for Small size. Changes for Medium and Large
sizes are given in parentheses.


=SKIRT BACK=: Cast on 90 (94, 98) sts. Work 17 inches in stockinette
st (K 1 row, P 1 row). Any change in skirt length should be made
here. This skirt has been planned for a 25 inch length. =1st DEC
ROW=: K 8 (10, 12) * K 2 tog, K 16, repeat from * across row ending
with K 2 tog, K 8 (10, 12), 5 sts have been dec. =NEXT 5 ROWS=: Work
even. =2nd DEC ROW=: K 7 (9, 11), * K 2 tog, K 15, repeat from *
across row ending with K 2 tog, K 8 (10, 12). =NEXT 5 ROWS=: Work
even. =3rd DEC ROW=: K 7 (9, 11), * K 2 tog, K 14, repeat from *
across row ending with K 2 tog, K 7 (9, 11). =NEXT 5 ROWS=: Work
even. =4th DEC ROW=: K 6 (8, 10), * K 2 tog, K 13, repeat from *
across row ending with K 2 tog, K 7 (9, 11). =NEXT 5 ROWS=: Work
even. =5th DEC ROW=: K 6 (8, 10), * K 2 tog, K 12, repeat from *
across row ending with K 2 tog, K 6 (8, 10). =NEXT 5 ROWS=: Work
even. =6th DEC ROW=: K 5 (7, 9), * K 2 tog, K 11, repeat from *
across row ending with K 2 tog, K 6 (8, 10). =NEXT 5 ROWS=: Work
even. =7th DEC ROW=: K 5 (7, 9), * K 2 tog, K 10, repeat from *
across row ending with K 2 tog, K 5 (7, 9). There are 55 (59, 63)
sts on needle. Work even until section measures 25 inches or desired
length, bind off.

=SKIRT FRONT=: Work same as back.

=FINISHING=: Block sections. Sew side seams leaving 8 inches open on
left side for zipper. With right side facing work a row of s c around
lower edge, waistline and zipper opening. Sew zipper in position 1
inch below waistline. Face waistline with grosgrain ribbon allowing
1 inch underlap on back for closing. Sew hooks and eyes in position.
Finish with edge same as jacket.




Versatile Shell and Skirt

  dress it up or down


TEAL AND WHITE SHELL


=SIZES: Small, Medium, Large=


Materials Required:

  =AMERICAN THREAD COMPANY “DAWN” DE LUXE FINGERING YARN=
  7 (7, 8) skeins Teal
  1 skein White

Plastic or Aluminum Crochet Hook Size H OR ANY SIZE HOOK WHICH WILL
RESULT IN STITCH GAUGE BELOW.

=GAUGE=: 4 sts (2 patterns) = 1 inch; 3 rows = 1 inch

Directions are given for Small size (12). Changes for Medium (14) and
Large (16) sizes given in parentheses.


=FRONT=: With Teal ch 70 (74, 78) sts to measure 17½ (18½, 19½)
inches. =1st ROW=: Work 1 s c in 2nd ch from hook and in each
remaining ch, 69 (73, 77) s c, ch 1, turn. =2nd ROW=: Work 1 s c in
1st s c, * cluster st in next s c (cluster st: keeping last loop of
each d c on hook, work 2 d c in same st, yarn over and pull through
all loops), 1 s c in next s c (1 pattern), repeat from * across row,
ch 3, turn, 34 (36, 38) clusters. =3rd ROW=: Work a cluster in each
s c and 1 s c in each cluster across row, 35 (37, 39) clusters,
ch 1, turn. Repeat 2nd and 3rd rows for pattern. Work 3 more rows
in pattern, * cut Teal. Join White and work 1 row of pattern, cut
White. Join Teal and work 1 row of pattern. Repeat from * twice more
(3 White rows). Continue pattern with Teal until front measures 12
inches from beg or desired length to underarms ending with 2nd row of
pattern, turn.

=SHAPE ARMHOLES=: =1st ROW=: Work sl st loosely across 4 (4, 6) sts,
work pattern to within 4 (4, 6) sts, turn. =2nd ROW=: Work sl st
loosely across 2 (3, 2) sts, then work pattern to within 2 (3, 2) sts
of end. There will be 28 (29, 30) clusters on rows beg and ending
with s c and 29 (30, 31) clusters on rows beg and ending with a
cluster. Work even in pattern until armholes measure 5 (5½, 6) inches
from armhole shaping.

=SHAPE NECK=: =1st ROW=: Work pattern across 19 (19, 21) sts, turn.
=2nd ROW=: Sl st loosely in 1st 2 sts, work pattern to end. =3rd
ROW=: Work even. Repeat last 2 rows twice. Work even until armhole
measures 7 (7½, 8) inches from 1st row, cut yarn. Skip the center 19
(21, 19) sts, attach yarn in next st, work pattern across last 19
(19, 21) sts. =NEXT ROW=: Work pattern to within 2 sts of end, turn.
Complete to correspond to 1st side.

=BACK=: Work same as front.

=FINISHING=: Block each section. Sew shoulder and side seams. With
right side facing work 1 row of s c around neck and armhole edges
spacing sts to keep edges flat.


FOR CROCHETED SKIRT DIRECTIONS SEE PAGE 35

[Illustration: Lady standing next to lamp]




Three Pinks Pullover

  good in blues, too!


=Sizes: Small, Medium, Large=


Materials Required:

  =AMERICAN THREAD COMPANY “DAWN” KNITTING WORSTED=
  1 skein (all sizes) each Pink and Bright Pink No. 1
  3 (4, 4) skeins Red

1 Pr. Knitting Needles No. 9 OR ANY SIZE NEEDLES WHICH WILL RESULT IN
STITCH GAUGE BELOW

  =GAUGE=: 6 sts = 1 inch (pattern)
           5 sts = 1 inch (stockinette st)

Directions are given for Small Size. Changes for Medium and Large
Size given in parentheses.


=BACK=: With Red cast on 102 (106, 110) sts. Work 6 rows in K 1, P 1
ribbing, then work 4 rows in stockinette st (K 1 row, P 1 row), drop
Red. =NEXT ROW=: (Cable Twist row). With Bright Pink No. 1, * skip
2 sts on needle, K 3rd st, then K 4th st, then K 1st and 2nd sts,
slip these 4 sts off needle, repeat from * across row. =NEXT ROW=: P
across. =NEXT ROW=: K across. =NEXT ROW=: P across. =NEXT ROW=: With
Pink work cable twist row. Starting with a P row work next 3 rows in
stockinette st. =NEXT ROW=: With Red work cable twist row. Continue
in established pattern and stripes until section measures 14½inches
or desired length to underarm. =SHAPE ARMHOLES=: Bind off 5 (5, 6)
sts at beg of next 2 rows; then dec 1 st at beg of next 6 rows (all
sizes). Continue in pattern until armholes measure 7½(8, 8½) inches.
=SHAPE SHOULDERS=: Bind off 9 sts (all sizes) at beg of next 2 rows;
then bind off 9 (10, 10) sts at beg of next 2 rows. Place remaining
sts on st holder for Neck.

=FRONT=: Work same as back.

=SLEEVES=: With Red cast on 42 (44, 46) sts. Work in K 1, P 1 ribbing
for 2 inches inc 1 st at beg and end of last row. Work in stockinette
st inc 1 st each side every 1½ (1, 1) inch until there are 62 (66,
70) sts on needle. Work even until sleeve measures 19 inches or
desired length to underarm. =SHAPE SLEEVES=: Bind off 5 sts (all
sizes) at beg of next 2 rows; then dec 1 st at beg of every row until
36 (38, 40) sts remain. Bind off 2 sts at beg of next 6 rows (all
sizes). Bind off remaining sts.

=FINISHING=: Steam and block sections. Sew side seams matching
stripes. Sew one shoulder. Sew sleeve seam and sew sleeves in
position.

=TURTLE NECK COLLAR=: With right side facing and Red pick up 100
(104, 108) sts from st holders. Work in K 1, P 1 ribbing for 5 rows,
turn sweater inside out and starting with a K row work in stockinette
st for 2½ inches ending with a P row, then P 1 row, K 1 row. Work in
K 1 P 1 ribbing for 3 inches, bind off. Steam collar, fold in half
turning ribbing under. Sew in place for double collar. Sew remaining
shoulder seam.

[Illustration: Lady with hand on side of head]




For a Man’s Man

  he’ll love it in heather tones


MAN’S DEEP V CARDIGAN

=SIZES: 40, 42 and 44=


Materials Required:

  =AMERICAN THREAD COMPANY “DAWN” KNITTING WORSTED=
  8 (8, 9) skeins Golden Heather

1 Pr. Knitting Needles No. 8 OR ANY SIZE NEEDLES WHICH WILL RESULT IN
STITCH GAUGE BELOW

  5 Buttons
  2 yds. Grosgrain Ribbon

  =GAUGE=: garter st—4 sts = 1 inch.
  Pattern: 6 sts = 1 inch; 6 rows = 1 inch.

Directions are given for Size 40. Changes for Sizes 42 and 44 are
given in parentheses.

=BACK=: With double strand of yarn cast on 82 (86, 90) sts. Work in
garter st (K each row) for 1½ inches (all sizes), cut 1 strand of
yarn. Continue with single strand of yarn. =NEXT ROW=: K across row
inc evenly to 127 (127, 136) sts. =START PATTERN=: =1st ROW=: P 1, K
1, * P 6, K 1, P 1, K 1, repeat from * across row ending last repeat
with P 6, K 1, P 1. =2nd ROW=: K 1, P 1, * skip 1, K next st in front
loop over skipped st, then K skipped st and sl both sts off needle
(small twist to the right), repeat from * twice, P 1, K 1, P 1, then
repeat from 1st * across row ending last repeat with P 1, K 1. =3rd
ROW=: Repeat 1st row. =4th ROW=: K 1, P 1, * skip 1, insert needle
from back of work between skipped st and next st and K next st, then
K skipped st in usual manner and sl both sts off needle (small twist
to the left), repeat from * twice, P 1, K 1, P 1, then repeat from
1st * across row ending last repeat with P 1, K 1. =5th ROW=: Repeat
1st row. Repeat last 4 rows for pattern until back measures 16 inches
or desired length to underarm ending with 4th pattern row.

=SHAPE RAGLAN=: =NEXT 2 ROWS=: Bind off 5 (5, 6) sts at beg of each
row. =NEXT ROW=: K 2, sl 1 as if to K, K 2 tog, p.s.s.o., work across
row to within last 5 sts, K 3 tog, K 2 (2 sts dec at each end). =NEXT
ROW=: P 3, work across row to within last 3 sts, P 3. Repeat last 2
rows 9 (9, 10) more times. =NEXT ROW=: K 2, sl 1 as if to K, K 1,
p.s.s.o., work across row to within last 4 sts, K 2 tog, K 2 (1 st
dec at each end). =NEXT ROW=: P 3, work across row to within last
3 sts, P 3. Repeat last 2 rows 19 more times (all sizes). Bind off
remaining 37 (37, 40) sts.

=RIGHT FRONT=: With double strand of yarn, cast on 43 (45, 47) sts.
Work 1½ inches in garter st. =NEXT ROW=: K 6 for border, drop 1
strand and K across inc 18 (25, 23) sts spacing inc evenly. There
will be 61 (70, 70) sts. Work in pattern same as back always working
the border sts in garter st and with double strand of yarn. Work in
pattern as established for 12 inches ending at neck edge. (When front
measures same as back work raglan shaping as stated below.)

=START NECK SHAPING=: =1st NECK EDGE DEC=: K 6, K 1, P 1, sl 1 as
if to K, K 1, p.s.s.o., work across row in pattern. Work 13 rows in
pattern. =2nd NECK EDGE DEC=: K 6, K 1, P 1, sl 1, K 2 tog, p.s.s.o.,
work in pattern across row. Work 13 rows in pattern. Repeat from 1st
neck edge dec row until there are 6 dec at neck edge. =NEXT NECK EDGE=

=DEC ROW=: K 6, K 1, P 1, sl 1, K 1, p.s.s.o., complete row in
pattern. =NEXT ROW=: Work across row in pattern. Repeat last 2 rows
at neck edge 6 (6, 7) times. =1st RAGLAN DEC=: Bind off 5 (5, 6) sts
at underarm edge. Continue raglan dec in same manner as back dec 2
sts every other row 3 (12, 9) times, then dec 1 st every other row 27
(18, 22) times. After all dec have been completed at neck edge and at
raglan bind off remaining pattern sts, but continue border sts for
4½2 (4½, 5) more inches, bind off.

=LEFT FRONT=: Work same as right front for 3 rows, then work a
buttonhole in next row as follows: K 2, bind off 2 sts, K 2; in
following row cast on 2 sts over the bound off sts. Work a buttonhole
every 18 rows 4 more times (all sizes). Continue pattern same as
right front to =NECK EDGE DEC=, then shape neck as follows: =1st NECK
EDGE DEC=: Work in pattern to within 10 sts, K 2 tog, P 1, K 1, K 6.
Work 13 rows in pattern. =2nd DEC ROW=: Work in pattern to within 11
sts, skip 1 st, K 2 tog, then K the skipped st, K 6. Work 13 rows in
pattern. Repeat from =1st NECK EDGE DEC= until 6 dec are worked. Then
work remaining dec every other row as follows: work in pattern to
within 10 sts, K 2 tog, P 1, K 1, K 6.

=RAGLAN DEC=: Start same as right front and complete same as back.
Complete bind off at shoulder, then complete border same as right
front.

=SLEEVES=: With double strand of yarn cast on 32 sts (all sizes).
Work in garter st for 1½ inches. Cut one strand of yarn, continue
with single strand of yarn. K across row inc 23 sts evenly spaced
(all sizes); 55 sts. Start pattern same as back inc 1 st at each end
every 3 rows 10 (10, 20) times every 4 rows 14 (14, 7) times. Work
even until sleeve measures 16½ (16½, 17) inches from beg or length
desired to underarm. =SHAPE RAGLAN=: Work same as Back Raglan until
13 sts remain. Bind off remaining 13 sts (all sizes).

=FINISHING=: Block sections. Sew seams, sew sleeves in position. Join
neck bands of front section. Sew in position around back neck edge.
Sew grosgrain ribbon around neck band. Sew buttons in position. Cut
buttonholes in ribbon. Finish with buttonhole st.

[Illustration: Man standing wearing knit sweater]




Covered All Over with sequins


=Sizes: 12, 14, 16=

Materials Required:

  =AMERICAN THREAD COMPANY “DAWN” ORLON=
  12 (13, 14) skeins White
  Circular Needle No. 1

1 Pr. Knitting Needles No. 2 OR ANY SIZE NEEDLE WHICH WILL RESULT IN
STITCH GAUGE BELOW

  ¼ yd. Nylon Netting
  3 bunches 8 M cup Crystal Iris Sequins.

=GAUGE=: 15 sts = 2 inches

Directions are given for Small size (12). Changes for Medium (14) and
Large (16) sizes are given in parentheses.


=TO WORK WITH SEQUINS=: Sequins are strung on a double strand of
thread. Untie 1 strand, place yarn through loop and pull strand of
sequins onto yarn. String about 2 strands of sequins at one time.
When necessary to string more sequins, cut yarn close to work, string
sequins as before.

=SEQUIN PATTERN=: =1st ROW=: (uneven number of sts) K 1, K 1 sequin
through st, repeat from beg across row ending with K 1. =2nd ROW=: P
across row. =3rd ROW=: K 2, * K 1 sequin through st, K 1, repeat from
* across row ending K 2. =4th ROW=: P across row.

=BACK=: Cast on 122 (130, 138) sts. Work in K 1, P 1 ribbing for ½
inch inc 1 st in last row of ribbing. Work in sequin pattern for 13
inches or desired length to armholes.

=SHAPE ARMHOLES=: Bind off 8 sts at beg of next 2 rows (all sizes),
then dec 1 st at each end every other row 3 times (all sizes). Work
even until armholes measure 7½ (8, 8½) inches. =SHAPE SHOULDERS=:
Bind off 5 (6, 6) sts at beg of next 6 rows, then bind off 8 (5, 7)
sts at beg of next 2 rows. Bind off remaining sts for neck.

=LEFT FRONT=: Cast on 60 (64, 68) sts and work in K 1, P 1 ribbing
for ½ inch. Work in sequin pattern until section measures same as
back to underarm. =SHAPE ARMHOLE=: Work same as back. Continue in
sequin pattern for 5 (5½, 6) inches. SHAPE =NECK LINE=: Bind off 19
(22, 24) sts at neck edge. Continue in pattern dec 1 st at neck edge
every other row 7 (8, 10) times. Work even until armhole measures
same as back. =SHAPE SHOULDER=: Work same as back.

=RIGHT FRONT=: Work same as left front reversing shaping.

=SLEEVES=: Cast on 61 (64, 68) sts. Work in K 1, P 1 ribbing for ½
inch. Work in sequin pattern inc 1 st every other row at each end
every ¾ inch 4 times. Continue inc in same manner, but work inc at
1 inch intervals 11 times more. Work even until sleeve measures 15
inches or desired length to underarm.

=SHAPE SLEEVE=: Bind off 10 sts (all sizes) at beg of next 2 rows,
then dec 1 st each end every other row until 39 (42, 46) sts remain.
Decrease 2 sts at each side of every other row 6 times. Bind off
remaining sts.

=FINISHING=: Block sections. Sew side, shoulder and sleeve seams. Sew
sleeves in position. Turn all ribbings to wrong side and sew in place.

=FACING=: With No. 1 circular needle, right side facing, starting
at lower right corner, pick up 1 st in each row on front and 1 st
in each st around front and back of neck. Work back and forth in K
1, P 1 ribbing for 3 rows, then continue in ribbing working 3 sts
tog on each side of front neck edges every other row twice. Continue
until ribbing measures 1¼ inches, bind off in ribbing. Cut a double
thickness of nylon netting and tack in place to wrong side of each
front edge. Fold facing over nylon netting and sew in place.

[Illustration: Lady standing leaning against man]




Heather Shell


=Sizes: 34, 36, 38=


Materials Required:

  =AMERICAN THREAD COMPANY “DAWN” KNITTING WORSTED=
  3 (4, 4) skeins Sky Blue Heather

1 Pr. Knitting Needles each No. 6 and No. 8 OR ANY SIZE NEEDLES WHICH
WILL RESULT IN STITCH GAUGE BELOW

  1 Pkg. of matching “FRUIT of LOOM” seam binding

=GAUGE for No. 8 Needles=: 6 sts = 1 inch (unblocked); 5 sts = 1 inch
(blocked).

Directions are given for Size 34. Changes for Sizes 36 and 38 are
given in parentheses.


=BACK=: Cast on 85 (91, 97) sts, K 1 row.

=START PATTERN=: =1st ROW=: K across row. =2nd ROW=: K 1, P 1, K 3, *
P 3, K 3, repeat from * across row ending with P 1, K 1. =3rd ROW=:
P 1, K 1, P next 3 sts tog and leave on needle, y o, P same 3 sts
tog and drop off needle (twist over 3 sts), * K 3, twist over next
3 sts, repeat from * across row ending with K 1, P 1. =4th ROW=:
Repeat 2nd row. =5th ROW=: K across row. =6th ROW=: K 1, P 1, K 3, *
P 3, K 3, repeat from * across row ending with P 1, K 1. =7th ROW=:
P 1, K 1, P 3, * K 3, P 3, repeat from * across row ending with K
1, P 1. =NEXT 4 ROWS=: Repeat 6th and 7th rows. =12th ROW=: Repeat
6th row. Repeat from the 1st to the 12th row for pattern until back
measures 12 inches. =SHAPE ARMHOLES=: Bind off 4 sts at beg of next
2 rows, then dec 1 st at beg and end of every 2nd row 3 times. Work
in pattern until armhole measures 7½ inches (all sizes) from 1st bind
off. =SHAPE SHOULDERS=: Bind off 10 sts at beg of next 4 rows. Place
remaining sts on st holder.

=FRONT=: Work same as back to armholes. Bind off 4 sts at beg of next
2 rows. =NEXT ROW=: Dec 1 st at armhole edge work to center, place
center st on safety pin, attach a 2nd skein of yarn. Working both
sides at one time dec at armhole edge same as back and at same time
dec 1 st at neck edge every 2nd row until 20 sts remain. Work even
until front measures same as back to shoulders. =SHAPE SHOULDERS=:
Work same as back.

=FINISHING=: Block sections slightly. Sew side and 1 shoulder seam.
=NECK BAND=: With right side of work toward you slip sts from st
holder onto No. 6 needles, then pick up 42 (44, 46) sts on side of
front neck edge, place a marker, pick up 1 st at center of V, place
a marker, pick up 42 (44, 46) sts on opposite side. Work 8 rows in
garter st (K each row) for all sizes always working center st in
stockinette st and dec 1 st on each side of center st in each row.
Bind off. Sew shoulder and band seam. Make a narrow hem on each
armhole and finish with seam binding.

[Illustration: Close-up of knit material]

[Illustration: Lady leaning on building]




Quick Bulkies

  _3½ stitches to the inch_


HIS BULKIE

=Sizes: 42, 44 and 46=


Materials Required:

  =AMERICAN THREAD COMPANY “DAWN” BULKY YARN=
  13 (14, 15) skeins White
  3 (4, 4) skeins Cocoa

1 Pr. Knitting Needles No. 7 and No. 11 OR ANY SIZE NEEDLES WHICH
WILL RESULT IN STITCH GAUGE BELOW

  1 set Double Pointed Knitting Needles No. 7.

=GAUGE for No. 11 needles=: 4 pattern sts = 1 inch; 7 stockinette sts
= 2 inches

Directions are given for Size 42. Changes for Sizes 44 and 46 are
given in parentheses.


=BACK=: With White and No. 7 needles cast on 83 (87, 91) sts. Work
in K 1, P 1 ribbing for 2¼ inches (all sizes). Change to No. 11
needles and =START PATTERN=: =1st and 2nd ROWS=: K across each row,
drop White. =3rd ROW=: With Cocoa K 1, keeping yarn to back, sl 1
as if to P, * K 3, sl 1, repeat from * across row ending with K 1.
=4th ROW=: P 1, * keeping yarn to front of work, sl 1 as if to P, P
1, repeat from * across row, drop Cocoa. =5th ROW=: With White K 1,
* sl 1, K 1, repeat from * across row. =6th ROW=: P 1, sl 1, * P 3,
sl 1, repeat from * across row ending with P 1. =7th and 8th ROWS=:
K across each row, drop White. =9th ROW=: With Cocoa K 3, * sl 1, K
3, repeat from * across row. =10th and 11th ROWS=: Repeat 4th and
5th rows. =12th ROW=: P 3, * sl 1, P 3, repeat from * across row.
Repeat these 12 rows until back measures 16 inches from beg or length
desired to underarm. =SHAPE ARMHOLES=: =NEXT 2 ROWS=: Bind off 5 sts
(all sizes) at beg of each row; then dec 1 st at beg and end of every
other row 5 times (all sizes). Work even until armholes measure 9
(9¼, 9½) inches from 1st bind off. =SHAPE SHOULDERS=: =NEXT 2 ROWS=:
Bind off 7 (7, 7) sts at beg of each row. =NEXT 2 ROWS=: Bind off 7
(7, 8) sts at beg of each row. =NEXT 2 ROWS=: Bind off 7 (8, 8) sts
at beg of each row. Place remaining sts on st holder.

=FRONT=: Work same as back to armhole shaping. =NEXT ROW=: Bind off
5 sts (all sizes) at beg of row, work in pattern across next 35 (37,
39) sts, place remaining sts on st holder for other half of front.
Work in pattern across row. Then dec 1 st at armhole edge every other
row 5 times (all sizes) and at the same time dec 1 st at neck edge
every 5th row 10 (11, 12) times. Work even until armhole measures
same as back armhole ending at armhole edge. Bind off shoulders same
as back shoulders. Pick up sts from st holder, place the 1st st at
center on safety pin for center V. Finish front to correspond to
opposite side.

=SLEEVES=: With White and No. 7 needles cast on 39 (41, 43) sts.
Work in K 1, P 1 ribbing for 3 inches (all sizes). Change to No. 11
needles and work in stockinette st (K 1 row, P 1 row) inc 1 st at
each side in next row, then inc 1 st each side every 8th row (all
sizes) until there are 59 (61, 63) sts on needle. Work even until
sleeve measures 17½ inches from beg or length desired to underarm.
=NEXT 2 ROWS=: Bind off 5 sts (all sizes) at beg of each row. Then
dec 1 st each end every other row until there are 27 (29, 31) sts
left. Bind off remaining sts.

=FINISHING=: Block all sections. Sew side and shoulder seams. Sew
sleeves in position.

=NECK BAND=: With right side facing and d p n pick up and K sts from
holder at back of neck, pick up 37 (39, 41) sts on side of V, one
from safety pin, 37 (39, 41) sts on other side of V. Work in K 1, P
1 ribbing for 6 rows always dec 1 st each side of center st each row
and always knitting the center sts. Bind off.




Her Bulkie

  _illustrated on page 15_


=SIZES: 12, 14, 16=


Materials Required:

  =AMERICAN THREAD COMPANY “DAWN” BULKY YARN=
  10 (11, 12) skeins White

1 Pr. Knitting Needles each No. 9 and No. 11 OR ANY SIZE NEEDLES
WHICH WILL RESULT IN STITCH GAUGE BELOW.

=GAUGE For No. 11 needles=: 7 sts = 2 inches

Directions are given for size 12. Changes for sizes 14 and 16 are
given in parentheses.


=BACK=: With No. 9 needles cast on 49 (57, 65) sts. Work in K 1, P
1 ribbing for 1½ inches (all sizes). =START PATTERN=: =1st ROW=:
Change to No. 11 needles, K 2, * yarn to front, sl 5 sts as if to
P, K 3, repeat from * across row ending last repeat with K 2. =2nd
ROW=: K 2, * P 5, K 3, repeat from * across row ending last repeat
with K 2. =3rd ROW=: K 4, * insert needle under free yarn, then K
the next st, K 7, repeat from * across row ending last repeat with K
4. =4th ROW=: Repeat 2nd row. Repeat from the 1st to the 4th row for
pattern. Work in pattern until back measures 14 inches from beg or
length desired to underarm. =NEXT 2 ROWS=: =SHAPE ARMHOLES=: Bind off
4 sts (all sizes) at beg of each row, then dec 1 st at beg and end of
every other row 3 times (all sizes). Work even until armholes measure
5¼ (5½, 5¾) inches from bind off. =NEXT ROW=: =SHAPE NECKLINE=:
Work across 11 (14, 16) sts, sl next 13 (15, 19) sts on st holder,
attach a 2nd skein of yarn and work across remaining sts. =NEXT ROW=:
Working both sides at same time work even, then dec 1 st at neck edge
every row 8 times (all sizes). Bind off.

=NECK BAND=: With No. 9 needles and with right side of work toward
you, pick up 13 sts (all sizes) on side of neck, place sts from st
holder onto needle and work across these sts, pick up 13 sts (all
sizes) on opposite side of neck. Work in K 1, P 1 ribbing for 1¼
inches (all sizes). Bind off in ribbing.

=FRONT=: Work same as back.

=SLEEVES=: With No. 9 needles cast on 31 (33, 35) sts. Work in K 1,
P 1 ribbing for 2½ inches (all sizes). Change to No. 11 needles and
work in pattern inc 1 st at each edge every 2 inches 6 times (all
sizes). There are 43 (45, 47) sts on needles. Work even until sleeve
measures 16½ inches or length desired to underarm. =SHAPE SLEEVE=:
Bind off 4 sts at beg of next 2 rows, then dec 1 st at beg and end
of every row until 17 sts remain (all sizes). =NEXT 2 ROWS=: Bind
off 2 sts (all sizes) at beg of each row. Bind off remaining sts.
=FINISHING=: Block each section slightly. Sew side, shoulder and
sleeve seams. Sew sleeves in position.

[Illustration: Man and woman talking]




Two Shells

  one knitted—one crocheted


KNITTED TWIST SHELL


=SIZES: 12, 14, 16=


Materials Required:

  =AMERICAN THREAD COMPANY “DAWN” KNITTING WORSTED=
  2 (2, 3) skeins Amber
  1 skein Cocoa (all sizes)

1 Pr. Knitting Needles No. 9 OR ANY SIZE NEEDLE WHICH WILL RESULT IN
STITCH GAUGE BELOW

  Plastic Crochet Hook Size 7

=GAUGE=: 9 sts = 2 inches

Directions are given for Size 12. Changes for Sizes 14 and 16 are
given in parentheses.


=BACK=: With Amber cast on 80 (86, 92) sts, K 8 rows. =START
PATTERN=: =1st ROW=: K 1, * y o (bring yarn to front, then over
needle), sl 1 as if to P, K 2 tog, repeat from * across row ending
with K 1. =2nd ROW=: K 1, * y o, sl 1 as if to P, K the y o of
previous row and next st tog, repeat from * across row, ending with
K 1. =3rd ROW=: K 1, * K 1, K the y o and leave on needle, then K st
before y o, slip both sts off needle, repeat from * across row ending
with K 1. Repeat last 3 rows for pattern throughout. Work even in
pattern until back measures 12 inches from beg or length desired to
underarm. =SHAPE ARMHOLES=: Bind off 3 sts (all sizes) at beg of next
4 rows. Work in pattern until armholes measure 6 (6½, 7) inches from
beg. =SHAPE SHOULDERS=: Bind off 4 (4, 5) sts at beg of next 2 rows,
bind off 4 (5, 5) sts at beg of next 2 rows; then bind off 4 (5, 6)
sts at beg of next 2 rows. P across remaining 44 (46, 48) sts for
neck hem ridge. Starting with a P row work 4 rows in stockinette st
(P 1 row, K 1 row) inc 1 st at each end every row, bind off loosely.

=FRONT=: Work same as back.

=FINISHING=: Block and steam each section. Sew side and shoulder
seams. Turn neck facing under at hemline and sew in place. With Cocoa
work a row of s c around neck edge and armholes.

=POMPONS=: (Work 28) Wind Cocoa 20 times over a 1½ inch cardboard,
slip from cardboard, tie at center, cut each end; trim into shape.
Attach pompons around lower edge as illustrated. Attach Cocoa at st
next to a pompon, * ch 8, sl st to a st next to the next pompon,
repeat from * around edge.




CROCHETED PINK SHELL WITH TASSELS


=SIZES: Small, Large=


Materials Required:

  =AMERICAN THREAD COMPANY “DAWN” KNITTING WORSTED=
  3 (4) skeins Pink

Plastic Crochet Hook Size J OR ANY SIZE HOOK WHICH WILL RESULT IN
STITCH GAUGE BELOW

=GAUGE=: 3 sts = 1 inch

Directions are given for Small size. Changes for Large size given in
parentheses.


=BACK=: Ch 10 (8), 1 s c in 2nd st from hook and in each remaining
st of ch, ch 1, turn. =2nd ROW=: S c in 1st s c, * d c in next s c,
s c in next s c, repeat from * across row, ch 1, turn. =3rd ROW=: 2
s c in each of the 1st 2 sts, work in s c across row working 2 s c
in each of the last 2 sts, turn. =4th ROW=: Sl st in 1st s c, ch 3
(counts as 1st d c), * s c in next s c, d c in next s c, repeat from
* across row, ch 1, turn. =5th ROW=: For =Small Size= work 1 s c in
each st; for =Large Size= repeat 3rd row. =6th ROW=: Same as 2nd row,
cut yarn, 13 (15) sts. Work 3 more scallops in same manner.

=NEXT ROW=: Join Scallops: With wrong side of last row of scallops
toward you attach yarn in 1st st of 1st scallop, s c in same space
for =Small Size=; for =Large Size= dec 1 st in 1st 2 sts, 1 s c in
each st of scallop, * ch 1, 1 s c in each st of next scallop, repeat
from * across next 2 scallops dec 1 st at end of row for Large Size
only. =NEXT ROW=: Repeat 4th (2nd) row of pattern working 1 st in ch
1 space, 55 (61) sts. Repeat from 2nd to 5th row for pattern working
even and omitting increases. Work even until section measures 10½
(11) inches or length desired from joining of scallops. =NEXT ROW=:
=SHAPE ARMHOLES=: Sl st across 3 (3) sts, work across row to within
last 3 (3) sts, ch 1, turn. =NEXT ROW=: Dec 1 st at beg and end of
row (to dec: * insert hook in next st, pull yarn through, repeat from
* once, y o hook and pull through all loops). =NEXT ROW=: Work even.
Repeat the last 2 rows twice (both sizes). Work even until armholes
measure 7 (7½) inches. =NEXT ROW=: =SHAPE SHOULDERS AND NECK=: Sl st
across 3 (4) sts, work across next 7 (8) sts, dec 1 st in next 2 sts
for neck shaping, turn. =NEXT ROW=: Working 1 shoulder at a time,
dec 1 st at beg of row. =NEXT ROW=: Sl st across 3 (4) sts, work in
pattern across row dec 1 st at neck edge, turn. =NEXT ROW=: Work
even, cut yarn. With wrong side of last long row toward you skip next
free 19 (21) sts, attach yarn in next st, dec 1 st in 1st 2 sts, work
across row to within last 3 (4) sts, then complete same as opposite
shoulder.

=FRONT=: Work same as Back until armholes measure 5½ (6) inches.
=NEXT ROW=: =SHAPE NECK=: Work across 10 (12) sts, dec 1 st in next 2
sts, turn. =NEXT ROW=: Work even. =NEXT ROW=: Work across row dec 1
st at neck edge, turn. Repeat the last 2 rows once. Work even until
Armhole measures same as Back, Shape Shoulder same as Back Shoulder
working neck edge even. With wrong side of last long row toward you
skip next 19 (21) sts, attach yarn in next st, dec 1 st in 1st 2 sts,
work across row, then work same as opposite side reversing shaping.

=FINISHING=: Block each section slightly. Sew shoulder and side
seams. Attach yarn in seam at lower edge, * work 1 s c in each row
of scallop, 1 s c in each st across lower edge of scallop, 1 s c in
each row on opposite side of scallop, 1 s c in ch 1 between scallop,
repeat from * all around, join, cut yarn. Attach yarn in seam at
underarm and work a row of sc all around armhole working 1 s c in
each st at underarm and 1 s c in each row. Work other armhole in same
manner.

=NECK EDGE=: Attach yarn at left shoulder edge and work 1 s c in each
row to within 2 rows from neck edge, * insert hook on side of next
row, pull yarn through, repeat from * once, insert hook in next free
st at front neck edge, pull yarn through, y o hook and pull through
all loops at one time, work across front edge sts to within last st
and work next st and next 2 rows in same manner as opposite corner,
then work 1 s c in each row and in each st all around, join. =NEXT
ROUND=: Work 1 s c in each s c, join, cut yarn.

=TASSEL=: Wind yarn 15 times over 4 inch cardboard, tie one end,
remove from cardboard. Tie again 1 inch from tying, cut opposite
end. Work 7 more tassels in same manner. Tie a tassel between each
scallop.

[Illustration: Two women standing]




Simple, Smart, Norwegian Design

knit a beanie to match


=Sizes: Small, Medium, Large=


Materials Required:

  =AMERICAN THREAD COMPANY “DAWN” KNITTING WORSTED=
  7 (8, 8) skeins Sand
  1 skein (all sizes) Black will make sweater and Hat

1 Pr. Knitting Needles No. 5 and No. 8 OR ANY SIZE NEEDLES WHICH WILL
RESULT IN STITCH GAUGE BELOW

  1 set Double Pointed Knitting Needles No. 5 and No. 8

=GAUGE For No. 8 Needles=: 9 sts = 2 inches

Directions are given for Small size. Changes for Medium and Large
sizes given in parentheses.


=BACK=: With Sand and No. 5 needles cast on 93 (97, 101) sts. Work in
K 1, P 1 ribbing for 2½ inches (all sizes). Change to No. 8 needles
and work in stockinette st (K 1 row, P 1 row) until back measures
16 (16, 16½) inches from beg or desired length to underarm. =SHAPE
ARMHOLES=: Bind off 5 sts (all sizes) at beg of next 2 rows, then dec
1 st at beg and end of every row 4 times (all sizes). Start pattern
following chart on this page. Work from right to left to center of
chart, then work from left to right of center to complete design.
When armholes measure 9 (9½, 10) inches =SHAPE SHOULDERS=: =NEXT 2
ROWS=: Bind off 7 (8, 8) sts at beg of each row, then bind off 8 sts
(all sizes) at beg of next 2 rows. Bind off 8 (8, 9) sts at beg of
next 2 rows. Place remaining 29 (31, 33) sts on st holder.

=FRONT=: Work same as back until armholes measure 6½ inches (all
sizes). =NEXT ROW=: Work across 26 (27, 29) sts. Attach a 2nd skein
of yarn, work across 23 (25, 25) sts and place these sts on st
holder; work across remaining 26 (27, 29) sts. Working both sides at
same time dec 1 st at neck edge every other row 3 (3, 4) times. Work
even until armholes measure same as back. Bind off shoulder same as
back.

=SLEEVES=: With Sand and No. 5 needles cast on 47 (49, 51) sts. Work
in K 1, P 1 ribbing for 2½ inches. Change to No. 8 needles and work
in stockinette st inc 1 st each side every inch until there are 67
(71, 75) sts. Work even until sleeve measures 17 (17½, 19) inches
from beg or length desired to underarm. =SHAPE SLEEVE=: Centering
design follow chart, bind off 5 sts at beg of next 2 rows; then dec 1
st at beg and end of every other row until there are 29 (31, 33) sts;
then bind off 3 sts at beg of next 4 rows. Bind off remaining sts.

=FINISHING=: Block each section. Sew underarm, shoulder and sleeve
seams. Sew sleeves in position.

=NECK BAND=: With No. 5 d p n pick up 82 (86, 90) sts, this includes
sts from st holders. Work in K 1, P 1 ribbing for 6 inches, bind off
loosely in ribbing.


BEANIE

With Sand and No. 5 d p n cast on 80 sts. Divide sts evenly on 3
needles. Work in K 1, P 1 ribbing for 2½ inches. Turn ribbing to
inside. Change to No. 8 d p n and K for 2½ inches. =NEXT 6 ROWS=:
Follow 1 border of chart. Then K for 1 more inch. Change to No. 5 d
p n dec 3 sts evenly spaced. =1st DEC ROUND=: * K 5, K 2 tog, repeat
from * all around. Always K 1 round between dec rounds. =2nd DEC
ROUND=: * K 4, K 2 tog, repeat from * all around. =3rd DEC ROUND=:
* K 3, K 2 tog, repeat from * all around. =4th DEC ROUND=: * K 2, K
2 tog, repeat from * all around. =5th DEC ROUND=: * K 1, K 2 tog,
repeat from * all around. =6th DEC ROUND=: K 2 tog all around, cut
yarn leaving a 12 inch length for sewing. Thread yarn into blunt
needle and draw sts tog.

=POMPON=: Wind Sand 50 times over a 3 inch cardboard, slip off
cardboard, tie in center, cut both ends, trim into shape. Attach to
top of hat.




[Illustration: Pattern drawing]

[Illustration: Man standing wearing matching hat and sweater]




For Elegance—Irish Crochet




WHITE CROCHET DRESS


Small Size Only


Materials Required:

  =AMERICAN THREAD COMPANY “DAWN” KNITTING WORSTED=
  9 skeins White

Plastic Crochet Hook Size J OR ANY SIZE HOOK WHICH WILL RESULT IN
STITCH GAUGE BELOW

=GAUGE=: 1 flower motif = 2½ inches in diameter

NOTE: Dress is started at lower edge and worked in circular strips to
underarm. Remaining strips are then divided for armholes and bodice.


=1st STRIP=: Ch 4, join to form a loop, * ch 3, 1 d c, ch 3, sl st in
loop (this is one petal), repeat from * twice, 3 petal group, ** ch
11, turn ch, sl st in 4th ch from hook to form a loop, turn, and work
a 3 petal group in loop, repeat from ** 16 times (18 petal groups).
Working on other side of strip, work 3 more petals in same loop, *
ch 7, sl st in loop of next 3 petal group, work 3 petals in same
loop, repeat from * across entire strip (this strip forms 18 flower
motifs) ch 7, join with sl st between 2 center petals of flower motif
at opposite end taking care not to twist strip, ch 7, join in same
space on 1st flower motif. =2nd ROUND=: Sl st to top of petal, ch
1, s c in d c of 1st petal, * ch 5, s c in d c of next petal, ch 5,
s c in d c of next petal, work 5 d c in center st of loop between
petals, drop loop from hook, insert hook in 1st d c, pick up loop and
pull through (popcorn), 1 s c in d c of next petal, repeat from *
across row ending with a popcorn, join in 1st s c of round, cut yarn.
Attach yarn in d c of any 1st petal on opposite side of strip and
work same as 1st side, cut yarn. =2nd STRIP=: Work same as 1st strip
completing only one side of popcorn sts, cut yarn. To join to 1st
strip; attach yarn in d c of any 1st petal of 2nd strip, * ch 2, sl
st in center ch of ch 5 loop of 1st strip, ch 2, s c in next petal,
ch 2, sl st in center st between next 2 petals of 1st strip, ch 2, s
c in next petal, popcorn st in center st of ch 7 loop between motifs,
s c in next petal, repeat from 1st * of joining across row ending to
correspond. Repeat 2nd strip 11 times.

=BACK BODICE=: Work 7 motifs but do not connect strip and work as
follows: sl st in each of 1st 3 chs on 1st motif, s c in d c of 1st
petal, * ch 5, s c in d c of next petal, ch 5, s c in d c of next
petal, popcorn in 4th ch of ch 7 loop, s c in d c of next petal,
repeat from * across one side ending to correspond, ch 5, and join
2nd side of strip to dress. Work and join 2 strips more in same
manner.

=FRONT BODICE=: Skip 2 motifs on each side of dress for armholes.
Work and join 2 strips of 7 motifs same as back. Work and join 1
strip of 2 motifs on each side for shoulders attaching to front and
back bodice of strip, leaving 3 center motifs free on front and 3
center motifs free on back for neckline.

=NECK=: Attach yarn at shoulder seam, * ch 1, sl st, ch 1, sl st in
next loop, repeat from * around neckline, join in 1st ch. =NEXT ROW=:
Ch 1, * skip sl st, s c in next ch, repeat from * all around. =NEXT 2
ROUNDS=: Work 1 s c in each st, join, cut yarn.

=SLEEVES=: Work 3 strips of 8 motifs same as dress for each sleeve.
=SHAPE SLEEVES=: Work 1 strip of 6 motifs, attach to sleeve section
leaving 1 motif free at each end for underarm. Work one strip of 4
motifs and attach to sleeve as follows: s c in 1st petal, ch 2, pick
up center ch of 1st ch 5 loop on sleeve (of 1st motif), pull yarn
through, pick up center ch of next ch 5 loop, pull yarn through, pick
up center ch of next ch 5 loop, pull yarn through, yarn over and pull
through all loops on hook, ch 2, s c in center of next petal, then
join as before and end to correspond.

=FINISHING=: Block and steam lightly on heavy turkish towel. =SLEEVE
EDGE=: Work same as neckline. Sew sleeves in place. Line if desired
or wear over a sheath dress.


[Illustration: Lady sitting in chair]




Youth Likes Capelets

[Illustration: Young lady staring off to side]


=SIZES: Small to Medium=


Materials Required:

  =AMERICAN THREAD COMPANY “DAWN” DE LUXE FINGERING YARN=
  12 skeins White

1 Circular Knitting Needle No. 2 OR ANY SIZE NEEDLE WHICH WILL RESULT
IN STITCH GAUGE BELOW

  Steel Crochet Hook Size 7

=GAUGE=: 8 sts = 1 inch


=PATTERN=: Seed stitch. =1st ROW=: K 1, P 1 across row. =2nd ROW=:
P 1, K 1 across row. Repeat these 2 rows throughout. With circular
needle cast on 241 sts, join taking care not to twist sts. Work 5
inches in seed st pattern. =NEXT ROUND=: Work 1 st, then inc 1 st in
each st (481 sts). Work in seed st for 6 more inches. Bind off. =NECK
TRIMMING=: Work 1 s c in every other st all around neck edge (120
s c). =2nd ROUND=: 1 s c in each s c all around, ch 1, turn. =3rd
ROUND=: 1 s c in each of next 3 s c, * ch 3, 2 d c in 3rd ch from
hook, sl st in same s c, 1 s c in next s c, ch 1, skip 1 s c, 1 s c
in each of next 2 s c, repeat from * all around ending with 1 s c,
join in 1st s c, cut yarn.

=MID-SECTION TRIMMING=: Ch 289, work 1 s c in 2nd ch from hook, 1 s
c in each of the next 3 chs, * ch 3, 2 d c in 3rd ch from hook, sl
st in same ch, 1 s c in each of the next 3 chs, repeat from * across
remaining ch, cut yarn. Sew in position at increasing round.

=POMPON TRIM=: Wind yarn 75 times over a 2½ inch cardboard, slip off
cardboard, tie at center, trim into shape. Work 39 more pompons in
same manner. Attach yarn in any st at lower edge of cape, * ch 15,
skip 11 sts, 1 s c in next st, repeat from * all around (40 loops).
Tie 1 pompon to the center of each loop.




The Paris Metro

for the experienced knitter

  _illustrated in color on back cover_


PATTERNED STITCH- CHANEL JACKET

[Illustration: Lady standing wearing hat]


=SIZES: 12, 14, 16=


Materials Required:

  =AMERICAN THREAD COMPANY “DAWN” NYLON=
  11 (12, 14) skeins Cocoa

1 Pr. Knitting Needles No. 1 and No. 3 OR ANY SIZE NEEDLES WHICH WILL
RESULT IN STITCH GAUGE BELOW

  Steel Crochet Hook No. 1
  1 Double Pointed Needle

=GAUGE for No. 3 needles=: (stockinette st) 15 sts = 2 inches

Directions are given for Size 12. Changes for Sizes 14 and 16 are
given in parentheses.


=BACK=: Starting at lower edge with No. 1 needles cast on 162 (170,
178) sts. Work in stockinette st (K 1 row, P 1 row) for 1 inch. P 1
row on knit side for hemline.

Change to No. 3 needles and work as follows: =1st ROW=: K 2 (6, 10),
* P 8, K 17, repeat from * 5 times ending with P 8, K 2 (6, 10).
=2nd ROW=: P 2 (6, 10), * K 8, P 17, repeat from * 5 times ending
with K 8, P 2 (6, 10). =3rd and 4th ROWS=: Repeat 1st and 2nd rows.
=5th ROW=: Repeat 1st row. =6th ROW=: P 2 (6, 10), ** sl next 4 sts
on d p n and hold in =BACK= of work, K 4, K 4 from d p n (Back Cable
Twist), P 8, in next st * K 1, P 1, repeat from * twice, K 1 (7 sts
in 1 st; beg of popcorn), work a back cable twist, P 17, repeat from
** twice ending with back cable twist, P 2 (6, 10). =7th ROW=: K 2,
(6, 10), * P 8, K 17, P 8, K 8, P next 7 sts tog to complete popcorn,
K 8, repeat from * twice ending with P 8, K 2 (6, 10). =8th ROW=: P 2
(6, 10), * K 8, P 8, K 1, P 8, K 8, P 17, repeat from * twice ending
with K 8, P 2 (6, 10). =9th ROW=: K 2 (6, 10), * P 8, K 17, P 8, K
8, P 1, K 8, repeat from * twice ending with P 8, K 2 (6, 10). =10th
ROW=: P 2 (6, 10), * K 8, P 5, work a popcorn in next st (same as 6th
row), P 2, K 1, P 2, popcorn in next st, P 5, K 8, P 17, repeat from
* twice ending with K 8, P 2 (6, 10). =11th ROW=: K 2 (6, 10), * P
8, K 17, P 8, K 5, complete popcorn same as 7th row, K 2, P 1, K 2,
complete popcorn, K 5, repeat from * ending with P 8, K 2 (6, 10).
=12th ROW=: P 2,* K 8, P 6, K 1, P 1, K 1, P 1, K 1, P 6, K 8, P 17,
repeat from * twice ending with K 8, P 2 (6, 10). =13th ROW=: K 2
(6, 10), * P 8, K 17, P 8, K 6, P 1, K 1, P 1, K 1, P 1, K 6, repeat
from * twice ending with P 8, K 2 (6, 10). =14th ROW=: P 2 (6, 10),
* K 8, P 7, K 3, P 7, K 8, P 17, repeat from * twice ending with K
8, P 2 (6, 10). =15th ROW=: K 2 (6, 10), * P 8, K 17, P 8, K 7, P 3,
K 7, repeat from * twice ending with P 8, K 2 (6, 10). =16th ROW=: P
2 (6, 10), * sl next 4 sts on d p n and hold in =FRONT= of work, K
4, K 4 from d p n (front cable twist), P 8, K 1, P 8, work a front
cable twist, P 17, repeat from * twice ending with front cable twist,
P 2 (6, 10). =17th ROW=: K 2 (6, 10), * P 8, K 17, P 8, K 8, P 1, K
8, repeat from * twice ending with P 8, K 2 (6, 10). =18th ROW=: P
2 (6, 10), * K 8, P 17, K 8, P 8, work a popcorn in next st, P 8,
repeat from * twice ending with K 8, P 2 (6, 10). =19th ROW=: K 2 (6,
10), * P 8, K 8, complete popcorn st, K 8, P 8, K 17, repeat from *
twice ending with P 8, K 2 (6, 10). =20th ROW=: P 2 (6, 10), * K 8, P
17, K 8, P 8, K 1, P 8, repeat from * twice ending with K 8, P 2 (6,
10). =21st ROW=: K 2 (6, 10),* P 8, K 8, P 1, K 8, P 8, K 17, repeat
from * twice ending with P 8, K 2 (6, 10). =22nd ROW=: P 2 (6, 10),
* work a =BACK= cable twist, P 17, back cable twist, P 5, popcorn in
next st, P 2, K 1, P 2, popcorn in next st, P 5, repeat from * twice
ending with Back cable twist, P 2 (6, 10). =23rd ROW=: K 2 (6, 10),
* P 8, K 5, complete popcorn, K 2, P 1, K 2, complete popcorn, K 5,
P 8, K 17, repeat from * twice ending with P 8, K 2 (6, 10). =24th
ROW=: P 2 (6, 10), * K 8, P 17, K 8, P 6, K 1, P 1, K 1, P 1, K 1, P
6, repeat from * twice ending with K 8, P 2 (6, 10). =25th ROW=: K 2
(6, 10), * P 8, K 6, P 1, K 1, P 1, K 1, P 1, K 6, P 8, K 17, repeat
from * twice ending with P 8, K 2 (6, 10). =26th ROW=: P 2 (6, 10), *
K 8, P 17, K 8, P 7, K 3, P 7, repeat from * twice ending with P 8, K
2 (6, 10). =27th ROW=: K 2 (6, 10), * P 8, K 7, P 3, K 7, P 8, K 17,
repeat from * twice ending with P 8, K 2 (6, 10). =28th ROW=: P 2 (6,
10), * K 8, P 17, K 8, P 8, K 1, P 8, repeat from * twice ending with
K 8, P 2 (6, 10). =29th ROW=: K 2 (6, 10), * P 8, K 8, P 1, K 8, P 8,
K 17, repeat from * twice ending with P 8, K 2 (6, 10). =30th ROW=:
P 2 (6, 10), * K 8, P 8, work popcorn, P 8, K 8, P 17, repeat from
* twice ending with K 8, P 2 (6, 10). =31st ROW=: K 2 (6, 10), * P
8, K 17, P 8, K 8, complete popcorn, K 8, repeat from * twice ending
with P 8, K 2 (6, 10). =32nd ROW=: P 2 (6, 10), * front cable twist,
P 8, K 1, P 8, front cable twist, P 17, repeat from * twice ending
with front cable twist, P 2 (6, 10). Continue in established pattern
alternating BACK and FRONT CABLE TWISTS and starting each new popcorn
group in next row following completion of popcorn always working new
popcorn group in alternate stripes between cable stripes. Work until
section measures 13 (14, 15) inches from hemline. =SHAPE ARMHOLES=:
Bind off 12 (12, 12) sts at beg of each of next 2 rows, dec 1 st each
end every other row 8 (8, 8) times. Work even on 122 (130, 138) sts
until armholes measure 6½ (6¾, 7) inches ending on right side. =SHAPE
NECK=: On next row work across 50 (52, 54) sts, attach another skein
of yarn and bind off center 22 (26, 30) sts, work to end of row.
Working both sides at same time bind off 4 sts at each neck edge 4
times. =SHAPE SHOULDERS=: At each armhole edge bind off 12 sts twice
and 10 (12, 14) sts once, cut yarn.

=LEFT FRONT=: On No. 1 needles cast on 87 (91, 95) sts. Work in
stockinette st for 1 inch. P 1 row on knit side for hemline. Cast
on 8 sts (all sizes) for facing, 95 (99, 103) sts. Change to No. 3
needles and work as follows: =1st ROW=: (Front Edge; wrong side of
work), P 8, K 2, * P 8, K 17, repeat from * twice ending with P 8, K
2 (6, 10). =2nd ROW=: (Right Side): P 2 (6, 10), * K 8, P 17, repeat
from * twice ending with K 8, P 2, K 8. =3rd and 4th ROWS=: Repeat
1st and 2nd rows. =5th ROW=: Repeat 1st row. =6th ROW=: P 2 (6, 10),
** sl next 4 sts on d p n and hold in BACK of work, K 4, K 4 from
d p n (back cable twist), P 8, work a popcorn, P 8 **, work a back
cable twist, P 17, repeat between ** once ending with back cable
twist, P 2, K 8. Work in pattern as established and to correspond
to Back Section until front measures same as Back to armholes.
=SHAPE ARMHOLE=: Bind off 12 sts (all sizes). Dec 1 st at same edge
every other row 8 times. Work even on 75 (79, 83) sts until armhole
measures 5 inches (all sizes) ending at front edge. =SHAPE NECK=:
Work across 1st 18 border sts place a marker, dec 1 st, work to end
of row. Continue in established pattern dec 1 st before or after
marker in each row (to dec: P 2 tog before marker on right side, K 2
tog after marker on wrong side), 52 (54, 56) sts. =SHAPE SHOULDER=.
Bind off 12 (12, 12) sts twice and 10 (12, 14) sts once at armhole
edge. Work remaining 18 border sts in cable pattern until piece is
long enough to reach center of back, place sts on holder.

=RIGHT FRONT=: Work to correspond to Left Front reversing all shaping
and pattern.

=SLEEVES=: On No. 1 needles cast on 87 (93, 99) sts. Work hem as for
Back and Fronts. Change to No. 3 needles and work as follows: =1st
ROW=: (Wrong side): K 2 (5, 8), * P 8, K 17, repeat from * twice
ending with P 8, K 2 (5, 8). Work in pattern as established starting
popcorn group on 1st and 3rd stripes between cables and alternating
popcorn groups thereafter inc 1 st each end every ¾ inch 15 (14,
14) times, working inc sts into established pattern on sizes 14 and
16 only. Work ever on 117 (121, 127) sts until sleeve measures 13
(13½, 14) inches above hemline. =SHAPE CAP=: Bind off 12 (12, 12) sts
at beg of next 2 rows, then dec 1 st each end every other row for
4½ (4¾, 5) inches. Bind off 2 sts at beg of next 6 rows. Bind off
remaining sts.

=FINISHING=: Block sections. Weave side, shoulder, sleeve and neck
facing seams. Turn facings and sleeve hems and sew in place. Work 1
row of s c around all edges.




Another Versatile

for any time of day at all


BUBBLE V NECK SWEATER


=Sizes: Small, Medium, Large=


Materials Required:

  =AMERICAN THREAD COMPANY “DAWN” DE LUXE FINGERING YARN=
  12 (13, 14) skeins Coral

1 Pr. Knitting Needles No. 4 OR ANY SIZE NEEDLES WHICH WILL RESULT IN
STITCH GAUGE BELOW

  Steel Crochet Hook Size 1

=GAUGE=: 8 sts = 1 inch

Directions are given for Small size. Changes for Medium and Large
sizes given in parentheses.


=BACK=: Cast on 3 sts (all sizes). =1st ROW=: P across row. =2nd
ROW=: Place a marker before and after center st, K across row inc 1
st at each end (5 sts). =3rd ROW=: P across inc 1 st at each end and
inc 1 st each side of center st (to inc at center: P the parallel
yarn on each side of center st). =4th ROW=: K across row inc at beg
and end (11 sts). =5th ROW=: P across row inc at beg and end and at
each side of center st (15 sts). =6th ROW=: =START PATTERN=: Inc in
1st st, K 2, P 1, K 7, P 1, K 2, inc in last st (17 sts). =7th ROW=:
Inc in 1st st, P 3, K 1, P 3, inc 1 st, P center st, inc 1 st, P
3, K 1, P 3, inc in last st (21 sts). =8th ROW=: Inc, K 4, P 1, K
9, P 1, K 4, inc (23 sts). =Note=: Continue in established pattern
always inc 2 sts in each K row (1 st at each end) and 4 sts in each
P row (1 st at each end and 1 st each side of center st). These inc
are to be worked every row throughout. =9th ROW=: P across working
a puff st in each K st (puff st: K 1, Y O, K 1, Y O, K 1 in same st
(35 sts). =10th ROW=: K across all sts including Y O sts (37 sts).
=11th ROW=: P across (41 sts). =12th ROW=: K across (43 sts). =13th
ROW=: P inc in 1st st, P 9, P 5 puff sts tog, P 6, inc, slip marker,
P center st, slip marker, inc, P 6, P 5 puff sts tog, P 9, inc in
last st. (39 sts). =14th ROW=: Inc in 1st st, K 6, P 1, K 7, P 1,
K 7, P 1, K 7, P 1, K 6, inc in last st (41 sts; 2 puff patterns
on each side of center st alternating new puffs between previous
puffs). =15th ROW=: P across continuing in established puff pattern
(45 sts). =16th ROW=: K across in established pattern (47 sts). =17th
ROW=: P across in pattern (51 sts). =18th ROW=: K across in pattern
(53 sts). =19th ROW=: P across row in pattern working a puff st in
K sts same as 9th row (4 puffs; 73 sts). =20th ROW=: K across in
pattern (75 sts). =21st ROW=: P across in pattern (79 sts). =22nd
ROW=: K across in pattern (81 sts). =23rd ROW=: P across in pattern
working P 5 puff sts tog (69 sts). =24th ROW=: Inc, K 4, * P 1, K 7,
repeat from * to center, then work other side to correspond having 4
puff sts on each side of center st (71 sts). 25th ROW: P across in
pattern (75 sts). =26th ROW=: K across in pattern (77 sts). =27th
ROW=: P across in pattern (81 sts). =28th ROW=: K across in pattern
(83 sts). =29th ROW=: P across in pattern (87 sts). =30th ROW=: K
across in pattern (89 sts). =31st ROW=: P across working puff st in
each K st (125 sts). =32nd ROW=: K across in pattern (127 sts). =33rd
ROW=: P across in pattern (131 sts). =34th ROW=: K across in pattern
(133 sts). =35th ROW=: P across working 5 puff sts tog 4 times each
side of center st (105 sts). =36th ROW=: Repeat same as 24th row,
now having 6 P sts for 6 puff sts at each side of center (107 sts).
=NEXT 6 ROWS=: Work in established pattern (P 1 row, K 1 row), 125
sts at end of last row. =43rd ROW=: P across working puff sts in
K sts (177 sts). =NEXT 3 ROWS=: Work in established pattern. (K 1
row, P 1 row, K 1 row (185 sts). =47th ROW=: Work in same manner as
35th row (141 sts). =NEXT ROW=: =Small size only=. Discontinue all
inc at beg and end of rows but continue inc each side of center st
and working remainder of rows in established pattern. On following
K rows start each row with K 1, K 2 tog, work to within 3 sts, K 2
tog, K 1. =MEDIUM AND LARGE SIZES=: Continue in established pattern
alternating new puff patterns between previous puff patterns until
there are (149, 157) sts on needle, then discontinue inc at side edge
(see small size only). Work even until section measures 8 inches.
=NEXT ROW=: =NECK SHAPING=: Work across row in pattern to center st,
there will be 69 (73, 77) sts, bind off center st. Attach another
skein of yarn and work across other side to correspond. Working both
sides at same time continue in pattern dec 1 st at each side seam
every K row but working even at neck edge for 2 more puff rows ending
with a completed puff st row (11 rows of puffs to underarm). =SHAPE
ARMHOLES=: Bind off 8 sts (all sizes) at armhole side, then dec 1 st
every row at armhole edge until there are 38 (42, 46) sts. Work in
pattern dec every other row at armhole edge until 32 (36, 40) sts
remain. For Medium and Large sizes only work 4 rows even. =SHAPE
SHOULDERS=: At neck edge bind off 2 sts (all sizes) at beg of rows
and continue to dec 1 st at side edge every other row until all sts
are worked off.

=FRONT=: Work same as back.

=SLEEVES=: Work in pattern same as Front and Back until there are
103 (109, 115) sts on needle. Work in pattern as established only
to the required amount of sts for each size, then inc only on P row
on each side of center st and K 2 tog on each side of 1st and last
3 sts on each K row. Work until there are 10 complete puff rows or
desired length to shoulder. (This is a bias sleeve and there will be
no shaping.) Discontinue puff pattern. Bind off loosely.

=FINISHING=: Pin all pieces to size on heavy turkish towel and steam
lightly taking care not to flatten puffs. Weave shoulder and side
seams. Sew seams of sleeves and sew in place. =SLEEVE EDGES=: With
right side facing starting at seam work 70 (80, 90) s c all around
sleeve, join, ch 4, turn. =2nd ROW=: * Skip 1 s c, 1 d c in next s c,
ch 1, repeat from * across row, join [35 (40, 45) meshes], cut yarn.
Work other sleeve to correspond. =LOWER EDGE=: Start at seam work 90
(100, 110) s c across each section; 180 (200, 220) s c. =NEXT ROW=:
Same as 2nd row of sleeves having 90 (100, 110) meshes. =NECK EDGE=:
Work a row of s c all around working 1 s c in every row working loose
enough to keep work flat, ch 5, turn. =NEXT ROW=: * Skip 3 s c, d
c in next s c, ch 2, repeat from * all around, join; 48 (50, 50)
meshes, cut yarn.

=POMPONS=: Work 88 (98, 106). Wind yarn 40 times over the back of a
chair, tie at 1¼ inch intervals, cut between ties, trim slightly.
Attach a double strand of yarn in mesh, ch 4, join a pompon, ch 4,
skip 1 mesh, sl st in next mesh, ch 7, join a pompon, ch 7, skip 2
meshes, sl st in next mesh, continue all around lower edge and sleeve
edges until all pompons are joined. Finish neck edge with pompons
attaching 1 pompon to every other mesh.

[Illustration: Skein of yarn]


[Illustration: Lady standing looking off to side]




Banker’s Choice

smart quickie—only 3 stitches to the inch


DOUBLE BREASTED COCOA JACKET


=Sizes: 10, 12, 14=


Materials Required:

  =AMERICAN THREAD COMPANY “DAWN” BULKY YARN=
  11 (12, 13) skeins Cocoa

1 Pr. Knitting Needles No. 11 OR ANY SIZE NEEDLES WHICH WILL RESULT
IN STITCH GAUGE BELOW

  1 Double Pointed Needle
  Plastic Crochet Hook Size J
  6—1 inch Bone Rings

=GAUGE=: 3 sts = 1 inch

Directions are given for size 10. Changes for sizes 12 and 14 are
given in parentheses.

  =MEASUREMENTS=: Sizes               10   12   14
  Width across back at underarm       18″  19″  20″
  Width across fronts, at underarm    12″  14″  15″


=BACK=: Cast on 57 (61, 65) sts, work 4 rows in K 1, P 1 ribbing.
=NEXT ROW=: K across row for hemline. =START PATTERN=: =1st ROW=: K
3, * sl 1, K 3, repeat from * across row ending last repeat with sl
1, K 1. =2nd ROW=: P 1, sl 1, P 3, * sl 1, P 3, repeat from * across
row. =3rd ROW=: * K 1, place next 2 sts on d p n and hold in back
of work, K the sl st, K 2 sts from d p n, repeat from * across row
ending with K 1. =4th ROW=: P across row, Repeat these 4 rows until
back measures 13 (13½, 14) inches from hemline. =SHAPE ARMHOLES=:
Keeping pattern uniform bind off 3 (4, 5) sts at beg of next 2 rows,
then dec 1 st at beg and end of every other row twice. Work even in
pattern until armholes measure 7½ (8, 8½) inches. =SHAPE SHOULDERS=:
Bind off 5 (5, 5) sts at beg of next 4 rows, then bind off 4 (5, 5)
sts at beg of next 2 rows, bind off remaining 19 (19, 21) sts.

=LEFT FRONT=: Cast on 41 (45, 49) sts and work same as back to
underarm. =SHAPE ARMHOLE=: Work same as back. Work even until armhole
measures 4½ (5, 5½) inches ending with 3rd pattern row. =SHAPE NECK=:
P across 5 sts, bind off 10 (12, 14) sts, P across remaining sts.
=NEXT ROW=: Work in pattern across row dec 1 st before and after
bound off sts, tie in another skein to work end sts. =NEXT ROW=:
Working both sides at same time work even in pattern. Repeat the
last 2 rows 3 times, cut yarn and fasten st on shaped side. Continue
to work opposite side dec 1 st every other row until 14 (15, 15)
sts remain. Work even until armhole measures same as back, bind off
shoulder same as back. Mark position for 3 evenly spaced sets of
buttonholes having 1st set 3 inches from hemline and last set ½ inch
from neck shaping.

=RIGHT FRONT=: Work same as left front working buttonholes to
correspond to markers and reversing all shapings. =BUTTONHOLES=: Work
across 1st 3 sts, bind off next 3 sts, work across next 11 (13, 15)
sts, bind off next 3 sts, work across remaining sts. =NEXT ROW=: Cast
on 3 sts over bound off sts.

=SLEEVES=: Cast on 25 (29, 29) sts. Work 4 rows in K 1, P 1 ribbing.
=NEXT ROW=: K across row for hemline. Work in pattern inc 1 st at
beg and end of every 8th (9th, 9th) row until there are 43 (45, 47)
sts. Work even until sleeve measures 16½ (17, 17½) inches or desired
length from hemline.

=SHAPE CAP=: Bind off 3 (4, 5) sts at beg of next 2 rows, then dec 1
st at beg and end of every other row until 19 (21, 21) sts remain,
bind off remaining sts.

=FINISHING=: Block each section slightly to measurements. Sew
shoulder, side and sleeve seams. Sew sleeves in position. Turn all
hemlines under and tack in position. With right side of work facing,
attach yarn in point of right front neck edge and work 55 (59, 63)
s c around neck to Opposite point, out yarn. Attach yarn at front
neck edge and work a row of sl sts around both fronts and lower edge.
Attach yarn in sleeve seam and work a row of sl sts around sleeve
edge.

=COLLAR=: With wrong side of s c row toward you, attach yarn in next
s c to center of left front, 1 s c, 1 d c in same space, * skip 1 s
c, 1 s c, 1 d c in next s c, repeat from * across row to within 1 s c
of center of right front, ending with 1 s c in next st, ch 1, turn.
=NEXT ROW=: 1 s c, 1 d c in s c, * 1 s c, 1 d c in next s c, repeat
from * across row ending with 1 s c in last s c, ch 1, turn. Repeat
the last row 3 times, cut yarn. Attach yarn on side of collar at
left neck edge, work a sl st in each st all around collar edge, cut
yarn. =BUTTONS=: Work 14 s c over bone ring, join, cut yarn leaving a
length for sewing. Thread yarn into a blunt needle and pull through
sts pulling sts to center of ring, fasten sts and sew buttons in
position. Finish buttonholes.

[Illustration: Lady standing touching hair]




CROCHET ABBREVIATIONS


  ch        Chain
  s c       Single Crochet
  s d c     Short Double Crochet
  d c       Double Crochet
  tr c      Treble Crochet
  d tr c    Double Treble Crochet
  tr tr c   Treble Treble Crochet
  sl st     Slip Stitch
  st        Stitch
  sts       Stitches

*(Asterisk) Indicates that the instructions immediately following are
to be repeated the given number of times plus the original.

**Are used in the same way.


KNIT ABBREVIATIONS

  K          Knit
  P          Purl
  St         Stitch
  YO         Yarn Over
  Dec        Decrease
  Inc        Increase
  Tog        Together
  Rem        Remainder
  P.s.s.o.   Pass slip st over
  d p n      Double pointed needle
  K-O        Do not work st, row or round




Crocheted White Skirt

  _illustrated on page 5_


=Sizes: Small, Medium, Large=


Materials Required:

  =AMERICAN THREAD COMPANY “DAWN” DELUXE FINGERING YARN=
  9 (10, 11) skeins White

Plastic Crochet Hook Size H OR ANY SIZE HOOK WHICH WILL RESULT IN
STITCH GAUGE BELOW

  1—7 inch ConMar “No Snag” Zipper
  1½ yds. lining material
  1 yd. Grosgrain ribbon

GAUGE: 5 sts = 1 inch


=FRONT=: Ch 120 (126, 132), s c in 2nd st from hook, * ch 1, skip
next st of ch, s c in next st, repeat from * across ch, ch 1 to
turn all rows. =NEXT ROW=: S c in 1st s c, * ch 1, s c in next s c
(pattern), repeat from * across row. Repeat the last row for pattern.
Work even until skirt measures 19 inches from beg or 7 inches less
than desired length allowing 2 inches for hem. =NEXT ROW=: Dec 1
pattern at beg and end of row (to dec 1 pattern at beg of row: insert
hook in 1st s c, pull yarn through, insert hook in next s c, pull
yarn through, Y O hook and pull through all loops; to dec at end of
row: work to within last 2 s c and dec in same manner). Then working
in pattern dec 1 pattern at beg and end of every 5th row 8 more
times. Then work even in pattern until work measures 27 inches from
beg, cut yarn.

=BACK=: Work same as front.

=FINISHING=: Block and steam sections. Cut lining in shape of skirt
allowing for seams and hem. Sew side seam, sew other side seam to
within 3 inches of waistband. Sew zipper in place. Turn hem under and
sew in place. Attach lining. Finish waistband with grosgrain ribbon.




  AMERICAN THREAD CO. STAR BOOK No. 189      =29¢=

  Fashion Parade
  KNIT AND CROCHET FOR HIM AND HER

[Illustration: Lady leaning against tree]




  Transcriber’s Notes

  pg 14 Removed extra ) from: AMERICAN THREAD COMPANY “DAWN” BULKY
          YARN 13 (14, 15))
  pg 14 Added space between P and 1 in: repeat from * across row
          ending with P1
  pg 16 Changed work 4 rows in stockinete to: stockinette
  pg 33 Changed d p n Douple pointed needle to: Double

*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK STAR BOOK NO. 189: FASHION
PARADE: KNIT AND CROCHET FOR HIM AND HER ***

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the
United States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG™
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away--you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase “Project
Gutenberg”), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg™ License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg™
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg™ electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. “Project Gutenberg” is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg™ electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg™
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation (“the
Foundation” or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg™
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg™ name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg™ License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg™ work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg™ License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work (any work
on which the phrase “Project Gutenberg” appears, or with which the
phrase “Project Gutenberg” is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this eBook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase “Project
Gutenberg” associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg™
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg™ License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg™
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg™.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg™ License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg™ work in a format
other than “Plain Vanilla ASCII” or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg™ website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original “Plain
Vanilla ASCII” or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg™ License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg™ works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg™ electronic works
provided that:

• You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg™ works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg™ trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, “Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation.”

• You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg™
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg™
  works.

• You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

• You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg™ works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg™ electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg™ trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg™ collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg™
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain “Defects,” such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the “Right
of Replacement or Refund” described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg™ trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg™ electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you “AS-IS”, WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg™
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg™ work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg™ work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg™

Project Gutenberg™ is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg™'s
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg™ collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg™ and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation's website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg™ depends upon and cannot survive without
widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg™ electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg™ concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg™ eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg™ eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg™,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
